What's talk about what is a reasonable budget for when you're trying to launch year in the year first
a version through contracting first thing I want to say is it is not very expensive and if it were the
case that web apps especially mobile apps were extremely expensive then I would not be making this course.
I think that a lot of people are under the impression that apps if done well are extremely expensive.
That is just not the case.
You can take that from me and running a web studio for over almost three years now and it made me 120
hundred thirty applications it's just not nearly as expensive as you think.
In my experience as an entrepreneur I've run the gamut in terms of how much money I've spent on contracting
I'd gotten deployable apps out in into market for as little as $200.
I've built apps that seem like large applications that you know I only spent $1000 $2000 on to give
you an example of the most recent personal software project that I did.
I actually had built software that tracks taxis and manages the check in process and use for taxis that
was essentially an Administration panel.
And what it did was it would allow it allowed all the drivers to check in online with a visual schedule.
They can click and choose and drop and swap shifts.
It's integrated Twilley you know if you're not familiar with Twilley Toyo's a system that allows you
to send text messages from your web application.
It use Twilley to do check so every time the taxi driver ditching their car they would check an answer
a bunch of questions the application would store it and present that information.
It could calculate late fees based on when they checked in they could do things like expense tracking
kept track of how much was spent on gas and how much was spent on carwashes and it used an automatic
keyword system.
So as opposed to having taxis call and the dispatcher may have problems they can just text into the
application and based on the keywords the system could respond with instructions or pass that information
on to another person who could actually respond to it.
Now that would sound like a big application.
Nope it actually wasn't.
I spent about $3500 on that entire thing.
That took about 10 days to build and I use a native English speaker.
I didn't have to take this to India.
I didn't have to send this to South America or Eastern Europe or someone in England.
And it was barely over a thousand years.
I mean I could have launched a more basic version of it for 800 $700.
So there's a lot of functionality involved in that example.
And it really is not something that has to break the bank.
Now if you're going out and getting quotes what you're trying to build and it looks like you're about
to spend what you'd spend on a luxury car you are doing something wrong.
It's not the case that you have to spend that much money to build your application.
It very rarely is if it is the case you're probably doing one of two things.
One you're asking a studio and a studio has overhead and they charge a premium and they have their own
marketing budgets and everything like that.
You're using a studio that's charging you a lot of money.
It's also probably the case that they're located here in the United States and so you're not actually
taking advantage of the cost efficiencies of contracting when you do this.
They're charging you probably roughly what you'd pay an in-house developer.
That's bad you're also probably layering on way too many features at first when you launch your product
you want to launch with the core of what you think can deliver the effectively what the value of your
application to the consumer is.
You basically need to identify what the number one number two things that these apps are going to do
and build those first you do not need to launch with 20 25 features.
Actually I think in a lot of cases that's a very bad thing to do because you don't realize what your
customers want or your users want until you push it out there.
And so once you push it out there you will see what they want.
They'll demand other things and it might be the case that they end up rejecting a lot of the features
you've built if you're spending $20000 $40000 you're probably launching with something that's just too
large.
If you guys follow any of like Eric he's in the lean startup.
One of the things to talk about a lot is just minimizing how much money you have to spend upfront before
you figure out whether or not something works.
Follow that model per build an MVP minimally viable product try to launch the smallest thing you possibly
can if it's costing you tons and tons of money to get out get it out the door.
You probably have too many features.
If you can afford to launch it for tons and tons of money then power to you.
But just be aware you're taking a risk and this might be the most effective way of spending your money.
I think the most effective way of giving you a nice idea of how much things typically cost is just to
give you some examples and through examples you can get an idea of what raises the cost to what lowers
the cost and what is a dollar value to associate with a small app in a medium size app in a large.
Let's start with the example number one let's say you want to build a Chrome extension app because you're
not familiar.
You open up Google Chrome the Web browser the top right there is the Options button.
And next in that you can go to the Chrome store and you can install plugins that affect your browser.
Say you wanted that app to make actions on your web browser based on the behavior of the web browser.
Let's get a little bit more specific.
Let's say you wanted to build an app that reminds you to get back to work every time you go to a certain
like say 20 25 websites from building that app.
Getting it in the App Store Xining little icon for it.
I think a realistic price for that would be about $400.
You could get it done for a thousand and you could probably get it done for two hundred but I think
you might be cutting too many corners if you're going that low.
Now if you wanted to add in the ability to have settings on the system and add Web sites on the fly
you might need to add in an extra $200 that's a decent example.
That is a broad generalization as different every single time you ask a contractor because different
contractors have different rates different contractors work at certain speeds versus other people.
It's also depends if he has a fixed rate versus a price per hour.
That's something we're going to talk about later in the course so let's use an example number two.
This one is going to be a web app.
This web app allow you to log in through Facebook display on a wall all of your friends and their upcoming
birthdays then allow you to select a friend add notes to them about what you want to buy them for their
birthday and then have a system that can send you e-mail reminders and could possibly even in the e-mail
reminders populate some of the key words you used in your notes to give you Amazon suggestions.
That one hi would assume you could get built for anywhere from a thousand to 2000 dollars.
Again you can go above and below that then you're either paying way too much or you're cutting too many
corners.
The reason why this one's a little bit more complicated is because you now have to use Facebook logon
which means you have to integrate Facebook.
You need to handle user IDs and user accounts which means they have to log in log out.
Probably going have to add account settings and also has to do some pretty heavy manipulation from the
Facebook data and also e-mail notifications email notifications.
That's another day of work for a freelancer.
But it is a day of work e-mail notifications are generally simpler than say text message notifications
or push notifications on an app.
But it is something that they would have to spend a day building and integrating Amazon.
Maybe that's another half day.
So I'd say about a thousand or two thousand dollars.
Now if you wanted to make this more polished You could definitely add some more features and now would
probably add a couple of more thousand dollars depending on what it was if you wanted to make this responsive
responsive meaning that the website would respond to whatever screen resolution is opening it would
automatically add just the Web site's dimensions to fit my iPad or my iPhone.
Yeah you could probably add another $1500 to it because what you have to do is go back and design an
entirely new layout and that's going to depend a lot on the graphic design that you use.
That project right there the core of it one to $2000 you earlier wanted to polish it out make it responsive
and sharpen iPads and iPhones flawlessly.
You could spend easily three $4000.
There are certain things out there that will raise the price of your project significantly.
And this is where we get to the point where your project costs more than say $5000.
Is your project multi-platform multi-platform meaning if you're building a mobile app doesn't need to
be on iPhone Android Windows phone and BlackBerry.
A good rule of thumb is that take the cost for building it on one application and then add 60 to 70
percent to build it on a second one.
And so if you're doing that four times you would need to make that calculation four different times.
Obviously depends on a lot of different variables.
I'm just speaking in general terms if I were to take an application and build it on an iPhone you would
have to design the front of the application for the iPhone and a server application that could handle
the data well the server application can be used in Android can be used in Windows Phone.
And that's what allows you to have some savings you're not doing the project effectively four times.
And if it's a case that you want to launch multi-platform like that that's where I think you need to
set down and have a hard think about whether or not it's smart to launch a basic project on multiple
platforms at once when it's just you.
It's generally a better idea to launch with one and less the entire value proposition of your application
is that it is multi-platform in which case you're just going to have to know you're gonna be spending
more money.
Another thing I look for.
Are you building something that's never been done before.
Really all that means is that this is something that the freelancer or the contractor or the studio
they're going to have to do a lot of time researching and if has a really hard thing to do they could
spend five hours researching it for every one hour they actually spent implementing it.
And so that's going to drive up the cost and that's something that you need to know that if you're building
something you've never seen before or since it's not very common it's going to get significantly more
expensive.
This was just a little taste of what I'm talking about when I say something.
Contracting is cheap.
Getting your first version out is cheap.
I think everyone's experience is going to be different.
It just depends what you're comfortable launching with and if you are again launching with something
that cost over $10000 or $8000.
Please do take some time to reassess whether or not these features are absolutely necessary.
I don't want you to go and spend a ton of money upfront and get burned realizing half what you built
isn't necessary.
Is it useful and isn't being accepted by your users.
You guys have any questions posted of the group discussion or private message me.
If you guys are looking for estimates for cost on your applications I would say please hold off on that.
The reason why I'm saying this is because later in the course we're going to talk about how you will
find a contractor and how you can effectively gauge what the price is when you go out and actually do
this for real.
It's going to get you the most accurate price.
And it's kind of you're wasting time by asking for quotes from someone else.
Even if you are going around shopping around to studios based on your idea just know that right now
until you actually get out there and you follow the rest of the steps in the course you're not going
to get a very accurate representation with the prices so have a little patience and just hold off just
for a second but have any other questions regarding this lecture.
Just let me know and we can talk about it.